Language Access Policy Database [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRr0E17IGzLeGEovTfL7ohVa6FCTCfr8WLgh6ckhUj7IU-2dKdy1sKEnc13mtAY6-osR71A0J1XuXbr/pubhtml#]

My project was to create a database that looks at how language policies either expand or restrict language access. Attempts are made to try and show the methods of access these policies address and the timeline for their potential enactment from date authored. Currently the data mostly reflects policies at the federal and state level with an emphasis on California and its municipalities. Eventually this will be expanded to include more data from other states. My goal is to use this data to compare the impacts of different models of addressing access for languages in languages other than English. My hope is to see if (in the case of positive results) similar effects could be achieved when applied to non-standard or vernacular English (following the pedagogical method of treating these as languages that are translated to standard English).

I used google sheets as my repository and the timeline feature to experiment with different ways of visualizing this data. I attempted to use Storymaps, however I did not feel I could get the level of complexity needed to convey the core data necessary. Eventually I will develop a javascript based platform that lends itself to more complex data comparisons.

Although I’ve encountered scope creep before, this project truly pushed me to my limit. Feedback from Ben led me focus almost entirely on California rather than a datapoint for each state.


The purpose of seminar conversation is to listen to the diverse ways of looking at problems that we can navigate from our unique experiences and point of view. I found myself often honing in on the points made by classmates in other disciplines. The transnational barriers that change how we think about access and the challenges one might face in a digital humanities project. When thinking about iteration, I see how place plays a huge role in how we develop our thinking. I found the most changes to form and format occurred when I changed my physical space from Pitt and Home to different community spaces, different states, different environments. I don’t feel that I always conformed to the iteration schedule of the class. I spent a bulk of my time just finding data, then analyzing it. I do have a plan for the future. The fact that this didn’t answer my questions only means that I’m on the right track. Asking questions, hearing how passionate others are for this project only motivate me to keep working harder at it. One of the forms if engagement asks for us to work two to four hours a week on this project. I will admit I didn’t always make that benchmark each week. Some weeks I worked six hours. Others only one. I tried at first to organize my project solely by geography. Then by policy itself. It was through this continuous thinking about the shape and for, that I thought about how it could benefit external stakeholders. Who might actually use this project.

My plan for practicum is to see how I can convert this data into an interactive JavaScript based site that allows for critical analysis of different policies. One Idea I had was to embed the actual text of the policies with annotations for different codings. That way, people can see what words I am actually seeing that lead me to determine the perceived impact of a policy. I’m also considering how to make it contributable, so members of the public can submit a policy for consideration and I can easily review it and add it to the dataset.
